
## Working with files in ProtoSchool
Here in our ProtoSchool tutorials, we create a new IPFS node for you in the browser each time you hit the "Submit" button in a lesson. Whenever you see `ipfs.someMethod()` in our lessons, `ipfs` is a variable that refers to your IPFS instance, also known as a node. The actions that you take only affect your own IPFS node, not nodes belonging to your peers.

We're creating your IPFS node behind the scenes so you can focus on the content of our lessons, but eventually you'll need to learn to host your own node locally by installing IPFS and running a daemon in your terminal. When you're ready to experiment, you can find instructions for [installing IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/guides/install/) and [initializing your node](https://docs.ipfs.io/introduction/usage/#initialize-the-repository) in our docs.

As mentioned previously, the methods discussed in this tutorial are part of the [Files API](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md), you can check the documentation for more specific details such as options for each API function.

## Uploading files in the exercise

As we will be working with adding files to and getting files from an IPFS node, we will need some files to experiment with. For this purpose, there is an upload file step in each code exercise of this tutorial.

## Add a file

Let's start by learning how to add a file to your IPFS node. We do this by executing the following expression:

```javascript
await ipfs.add(data, [options], [callback])
```

You can find the full documentation for this method [here](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#add).

The `add` function returns a `Promise`, so you can place an `await` before the function call to block the execution until the return value of the promise is ready to be used.

The result of this `Promise` is an object with the following structure:
```javascript
{
    path: '/tmp/myfile.txt',
    hash: 'QmHash',
    size: 123
}
```

This `hash` is what we call a `CID`, a generated address based on the content of the node. For a more in depth look of how `CID`s are generated and what they are, feel free to take a look at the [Decentralized data structures tutorial](https://proto.school/#/data-structures).

In a future lesson, we will learn how to use this `hash`, or `CID`, to get the contents of a file.