
## Working with files in ProtoSchool
Here in our ProtoSchool tutorials, we create a new IPFS node for you in the browser each time you hit the "Submit" button in a lesson. Whenever you see `ipfs.someMethod()` in our lessons, `ipfs` is a variable that refers to your IPFS instance, also known as a node. This IPFS node is not carried over from one lesson to another, which is why you'll see that we often prepopulate some code in an exercise to get your new IPFS node to the state you got a different IPFS node to in a previous one.

We create these IPFS nodes behind the scenes so that you can focus on the content of each lesson.  Outside of ProtoSchool, though, you'd want a more consistent experience and a node (or multiple nodes) that you could access repeatedly. To acheive this, you could either initialize [JS IPFS in the browser](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs#use-in-the-browser) on your own, or host your own node locally by installing IPFS and running a daemon in your terminal. When you're ready to experiment with that, you can visit the IPFS docs site to learn how to [install IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/guides/install/) and [initialize your node](https://docs.ipfs.io/introduction/usage/#initialize-the-repository).

As mentioned previously, the methods discussed in this tutorial are part of the IPFS [Files API](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md). Check the documentation for more specific details, such as options for each API method.

## Add a file

In order to make a file available on the IPFS network, you first need to add it to a specific IPFS node. It's important to remember that because IPFS is a peer-to-peer, decentralized system, adding a file doesn't mean uploading it to a remote server somewhere. Assuming you're using a node on your own machine, the process is more like picking a file from your computer and adding a label to it that says, "I'm shared on IPFS! My name is ______. Come find me!" That label includes a Content Identifier (CID) derived from the file's contents that serves as a type of address that other peers can use to find a specific file, regardless of whose computer it's hosted on.

When you add a file to IPFS, you're putting it only in your own node, but making it accessible by peers on the network. It will only reamin available as long as someone who has it is connected to the network. If no one else has found and shared your file yet, and you shut off your computer or stop your IPFS daemon from running, that content will no longer be available for anyone to discover. The more people who share your content, through a process called pinning, the more likely it is to be available at any one time.

Let's take a look at how to add a file your IPFS node. We'll do this by executing the `add` method:

```javascript
await ipfs.add(data, [options])
```

So if we had the `File` object for an adorable photo of a kitten in our browser, accessible to us via a variable `catPic`, and we wanted to add it to our IPFS node, we could pass it into the `add` method as `data` like so:

```javascript
await ipfs.add(catPic)
```

Note that the `add` method can accept either a single `File` or an array, just in case you have more than one adorable animal photo to add to the node:

```javascript
await ipfs.add([catPic, dogPic, giraffePic])
```

Because the `add` method returns a `Promise`, you'll need to place an `await` before the method call to suspend the execution until the return value of the promise is ready to be used.

The result of this `Promise` is an array of objects, one for each file added to IPFS, in the following format:

```javascript
{
    path: string,
    hash: string,
    size: number
}
```

The value of the `hash` is a CID (Content Identifier), a unique address generated from the content of the node. (For a more in-depth look at how CIDs are generated and why they're important, check out our [Decentralized data structures](https://proto.school/#/data-structures) tutorial.) In a future lesson, we will learn how to use this value to retrieve the contents of a file.

The `add` method accepts other `data` formats besides the `File` object and offers many advanced `options` for setting your chunk size and hashing algorithm, pinning files as they're added, and more. We're highlighting the basics in this tutorial, but you can check out the [full documentation](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#add) to learn more.
