In the previous lesson, you saw that each file added to IPFS has its own unique `hash` derived from its content. This `hash`, also known as a [CID (Content Identifier)](https://proto.school/#/data-structures/04), can be used like an address to access the file. If you know a file's CID, you can use the `cat` method provided by the Regular IPFS Files API -- similar to the one you may have seen previously in Unix-style systems -- to retrieve its contents like so:

```javascript
await ipfs.cat(ipfsPath, [options])
```

An IPFS `path` can take several forms (you can read about them in the [Files API](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#cat) documentation). In this lesson, we'll use the simplest one: the `hash` string (CID) present in the object we receive for a file when the `ipfs.add` method is called. You may remember from the previous lesson that the `add` method returned both `path` and `hash` values for each file you added to IPFS. We'll learn more about the difference between these two values later.

The `cat` method first searches your own node for the file requested, and if it can't find it there, it will attempt to find it on the broader IPFS network. Because of the way cryptographic hashing works, the content you're searching for is guaranteed to match the file found, regardless of which peer is hosting it.

Data returned by the `cat` method comes in the form of a `Buffer`. A `Buffer` is just a raw collection of bytes and as such doesn't make any assumptions about encodings or the type of data it contains. However, if we know the file being retrieved is a plain text file such as a `.txt`, we can convert its buffered contents to a UTF-8 string (an interpretation of those raw bytes) by calling the JavaScript method `.toString()`.

So if you had the CID for a text file in an IPFS node, you could retrieve the file's contents as a readable string like so:

```javascript
let bufferedContents = await ipfs.cat('QmWCscor6qWPdx53zEQmZvQvuWQYxx1ARRCXwYVE4s9wzJ') // returns a Buffer
let stringContents = bufferedContents.toString() // returns a string
```
Notice how the example above waits for the results of the `cat` method before converting the value to a string. To accomplish that in a single line of code, you'd need to wrap the `await` statement in parentheses like so:

```javascript
let stringContents = (await ipfs.cat(cid)).toString() // returns a string
```

When you're ready to try this in the real world, you should note that the `cat` method can result in heavy memory usage, depending on the contents of the file being read. If you find this to be the case, you might want to explore the [catReadableStream](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#catreadablestream) or [catPullStream](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#catpullstream) methods instead.
