When we added files to IPFS in Lesson 3, we saw that the `add` method returned `path`, `hash`, and `size` values for each file, and that the `path` and `hash` values were identical. To access each of these files later, we would need to know its CID, the value we saw in the `hash` field. Did you notice that there was no filename provided?

The `add` method does offer one slightly more human-friendly way to refer to files, but only if we use a special `wrapWithDirectory` option to provide a path and filename for the added files. By doing this, we can create both CIDs for individual files, as we saw previously, and a CID for their containing directory, which can be used as part of a path to retrieve those files later by their filenames. This option will allow us to do interesting things with the `ls` and `get` methods, which we'll cover in upcoming lessons.

To use the `wrapWithDirectory` option, you'll need to call the `add` method as follows. Notice that once again we can add either one or multiple files in a single function call.

```javascript
await ipfs.add(file, { wrapWithDirectory: true }) // add a single file
await ipfs.add([file1, file2], { wrapWithDirectory: true }) // add multiple files via an array
```

When we used the `add` method previously, we were able to pass in just a `File` object from our browser. However, to wrap files with a directory, we need to also provide a path with the name we want for each file. To do this, we must replace the `file` argument in the `add` method with an object or an array of objects, one for each file, structured like so:

```javascript
{
    path: 'file.txt', // a string for our desired path, including the filename
    content: file // in our case, a File object
}
```

To add multiple files at once, we just need to pass an array of objects like the one shown above to the `add` method. For example, we could add two cat pictures into a directory on our IPFS node like so:

```javascript
await ipfs.add([
    {
        path: 'adorable-kitty.jpg',
        content: catPic1
    },
    {
        path: 'cat-drinking-milk.jpg',
        content: catPic2
    }
], { wrapWithDirectory: true })
```

The `add` method will return information about all the files we've added, as well as details about any directory it had to create in order to correctly add the files in the correct paths. For example, in the case above, the `add` method would return us an array of three elements, one for each file added and another for the wrapping directory created.

Note that we could also have used the same `add` method to create one or more subdirectories by adding them to the path of each file. For example:

```javascript
await ipfs.add([
    {
        path: 'cats/adorable-kitty.jpg',
        content: catPic1
    },
    {
        path: 'cats/cat-drinking-milk.jpg',
        content: catPic2
    },
    {
        path: 'dogs/dog-on-a-table.jpg',
        content: dogPic1
    }
], { wrapWithDirectory: true })
```
In this case we'd end up with six objects in our resulting array: one for each of the three files added, one for the new wrapping directory, one for the new `cats` directory, and one for the new `dogs` directory.

## Directories are immutable

It's important to note that directories we create in this way do not behave as in a regular file system. If we've wrapped some files with a directory with using `add`, we can't simply `add` new files to that directory. The contents of the directory we just created are final and immutable.

This is because of the way in which IPFS uses [content addressing](https://proto.school/#/data-structures/03): different contents lead to a different cryptograhpic hash (Content Identifier), whether we're working with directories or files themselves.

But what if you forgot to add a file to a directory you just created? You'll have to call the `add` method again with all the files you want wrapped with that directory, resulting in a new directory altogether with a new CID.

However, it's important to note that the file won't actually be stored multiple times if you do this. Unlike on your computer, where you can accidentally download the same file twice, store it in two different directories, and double your storage needs, the IPFS network inherently knows the contents of a file based on its CID, and can therefore keep only a single copy of the data that the CID refers to. It's only the reference to that data (the CID, which you can think of as a link or an addresses), which is stored in each of the directories you create. This efficiency is one of IPFS's key advantages.

**Rather than thinking of directories created with `{ wrapWithDirectory: true }` as traditional file folders, it's more useful to think of them as naming shortcuts, as we'll see in upcoming lessons.**

## An alternative
If you're looking for an experience that better mimics a traditional file system, you should explore the [Mutable File System (MFS)](https://proto.school/#/mutable-file-system), a tool built into IPFS that lets you treat files like you normally would in a name-based filesystem — you can add, remove, move, and edit MFS files and have all the work of updating links and hashes taken care of for you. It's an abstraction that lets you deal with immutable data as if it were mutable.
