So far, we've used the CID of the file or directory as the path when accessing a file. However, now that we've learned we can wrap a number of files into a directory, we have a new way to address a file.

As you saw in our lesson on the [`wrapWithDirectory` option](https://proto.school/#/file-api/05), we can add one or more files to a new directory and, when doing so, we need to provide a name to each one of the files we add. As a result, the `add` method call returns us an array which contains the `hash` value (CID) for each of the files and directories created.

As mentioned earlier, it's useful to think of directories created with `{ wrapWithDirectory: true }` as naming shortcuts, rather than as traditional file folders. Here's why:

Imagine that we called the `add` method like this, in order to add two files wrapped by a directory...

```javascript
await ipfs.add([
    {
        path: 'lists/kitty-pic-list.txt',
        content: catList
    },
    {
        path: 'cat-drinking-milk.jpg',
        content: catPic
    }
], { wrapWithDirectory: true })
```

...and that the `add` method returned this result:

```javascript
[
  {
    "path": "lists/kitty-pic-list.txt",
    "hash": "Qmey7KyqDwo8BfAoVsyLbybQ8LTN3RGbvvY1zV5PeumTLV",
    "size": 19021
  },
  {
    "path": "lists",
    "hash": "QmPT14mWCteuybfrfvqas2L2oin1Y2NCbwzTh9cc33GF1t",
    "size": 1093102
  },
  {
    "path": "cat-drinking-milk.jpg",
    "hash": "QmexwNKUeJPmmNR7n4wSzQXrVuyeuQcQikHCHg5xM3mtRq",
    "size": 912035
  },
  {
    "path": "",
    "hash": "QmP1j6shbCikCSfnQR7MzJrYdgM6ALpXJAUvkGJFrrwNew",
    "size": 1181341
  }
]
```

To read the contents of the `kitty-pic-list.txt` file, we would now have four addressing options:

* Using the file's own unique `hash` (CID), as we've done previously:

```javascript
await ipfs.cat("Qmey7KyqDwo8BfAoVsyLbybQ8LTN3RGbvvY1zV5PeumTLV")

```
* Using the file's full IPFS path (note how `/ipfs/` has been prepended to the CID):
```javascript
await ipfs.cat("/ipfs/Qmey7KyqDwo8BfAoVsyLbybQ8LTN3RGbvvY1zV5PeumTLV")

```
* Using an IPFS path that includes the `hash` (CID) of the file's containing directory (`lists`) and the file's path relative to that directory:

```javascript
await ipfs.cat("/ipfs/QmPT14mWCteuybfrfvqas2L2oin1Y2NCbwzTh9cc33GF1t/kitty-pic-list.txt")
```
* Using an IPFS path that includes the `hash` (CID) of the top-level directory and the file's path relative to that directory:

```javascript
await ipfs.cat("/ipfs/QmP1j6shbCikCSfnQR7MzJrYdgM6ALpXJAUvkGJFrrwNew/lists/kitty-pic-list.txt")
```

These last two options allow us to include human-readable filenames in IPFS paths, and therefore offer an interesting reason why we might choose to use the `wrapWithDirectory` option even if we're only adding a single file.

Notice that whenever we use an IPFS path (and not just a CID) to reference a file, it's important that we include `/ipfs/` at the start. This is necessary because there are other networking protocols that use the same CIDs but have different path structures, like libp2p or IPNS.
