---
    title: "List the files in a directory"
    type: "file-upload"
---

Now that we've wrapped some files in a directory in our IPFS node, let's learn how we can check its contents. If you use the command line frequently, you're familiar with the `ls` command. IPFS offers a similar `ls` method to list the contents of a directory. However, as with the `cat` method we saw earlier, `ls` will actually look for the requested directory on your own node first, then search the broader network if needed. Because of the way cryptographic hashing works, two directories with identical CIDs are guaranteed to have identical contents, regardless of which peers are hosting them.

You can call the `ls` method like so:

```javascript
ipfs.ls(ipfsPath)
```

The `ipfsPath` argument can take many formats, the simplest of which is a CID. (Remember, that's the same string value we saw returned to us as `cid` when we used the `add` or `addAll` method.) For example:

```javascript
ipfs.ls("Qmeybqr2GaiUyGSRWX3dhS2Qz6VTVBXzBiYiFcKpYFJ7tH")
```

You can explore other `ipfsPath` formatting options in the [`ls` documentation for the Regular Files API](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/core-api/FILES.md#ipfslsipfspath).

Because the `ls` method returns an [`Async Iterable`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for-await...of), you can only iterate over the values, one by one. If you need to return all the values, you can save each one into an array and then return the array.

To iterate over all the values, we can use a `for await...of` loop:

```javascript
const result = []

for await (const resultPart of ipfs.ls('/catPics')) {
    result.push(resultPart)
}

return result
```

To make things easier, we can use the [`it-all`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/it-all) package that does this automatically:

```javascript
// the all function comes from the it-all package
// and is made globally available (just like ipfs) in our code challenges

const result = await all(ipfs.ls('/catPics'))
```

The `result` variable is now an array of objects, one for each file or directory found, structured like so:

```javascript
{
  "cid": Object,
  "path": String,
  "name": String,
  "depth": Number,
  "size": Number,
  "type": String // can be "file" or "directory",
  "mode": Number
}
```


Note that there's a different `ls` method in the MFS API (called as `ipfs.files.ls()` rather than `ipfs.ls`) with slightly different properties, which you can learn more about in our MFS tutorial.
