Welcome to ProtoSchool!

Let's learn all about decentralized data structures.

## What's a data structure?

From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_structure):

> In computer science, a data structure is a data organization, management and storage format that enables efficient access and modification.[1][2][3] More precisely, a data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or operations that can be applied to the data.

In programming, data structures are everywhere. The way you organize data into variables in order to use them in programs involves any from dozens to millions of data structures. Common
data structures are Arrays, Objects, Graphs, etc.

## What are "decentralized data structures?"

Data structures that are using decentralized systems need to be "verifiable." On a single
system you have a much greater degree of trust in the data structures you work with in memory
or on disc. But in a decentralized system you have less, or possibly zero, trust among peers.

Also, large data structures need to be able to be spread out among peers and linked together
in order to be decentralized. In that same way that any web page on the web can link to another web page on the web in a different location, decentralized data structures enable a web of interlinked data.

## What is hashing?

[Cryptographic hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function) is the
most important tool in the toolbox of decentralized data  structures.

Hashing takes data of any size and returns you a single fixed-size "hash" for that data.
Anyone using the same algorithm with the same data will arrive at the same hash.

TODO: example in JS.

