## What is "content addressability?"

"Content addressability" refers to a technique where data is referred
to by an *address* that anyone can derive from the content itself.

The URL for a website is **not** content addressable. If I download that
webpage content I can't derive the URL. URLs, and other addresses that
cannot be derived from the data they are derived from, are problematic in
decentralized systems.

For example: three people (Bob, Alice and Molly) are trying to share some
data. Bob is connected to Alice and Molly. Alice and Molly are not connected
to each other anymore but Molly previous told Alice about some data she referred to as "foo."

Alice asks Bob for "foo." Bob has previously gotten "foo" from Molly and can
give it Alice, but how does Alice know that Bob is giving her the right data?

Bob could have gotten something called "foo" from someone else. Bob could
be a malicious actor and give her something else on purpose. If instead of
"foo" Molly had given Alice a **hash** of "foo" she'd be able to get the data
from anyone and know that it was the right data.

URLs as the primary addresses we give each other for data. URls give us an
*authority* (the domain name) to ask for data. Even though the web is
already decentralized, in that anyone can link to anyone else, the
references we use for those links requires that the data itself be
centralized so that we can get it from an authority.

Cryptographic hashes open the door to another form of addressing that we can
use in a decentralized environment without central authorities.

## CID (Content Identfiers)

A `CID` is a form of content addressing. It's a specification developed for
IPFS but has very broad implications.

A `CID` is a single identifier that contains a cryptographic hash **and**
information about how to interpret that data called a "codec."

```
+-------+------------------------------+
| Codec | Multihash                    |
+-------+------------------------------+
```

Many formats and protocols use content addressing. `CID` allows us to create a universal identifier for any of these sytems. Tools like `git` and protocols like ETH and Bitcoin all use content addressing already but they differ greatly in how to interpret the data and by what cryptographic function they use for hashing.

A `CID` is an identifier that contains the `codec` to interpret the data and a `multihash` which is a self-desribing hash (a hash that tells you what type of hashing function was used to create it).

```
+------------------------------+
|Codec                         |
+------------------------------+
|Multihash                     |
| +----------+---------------+ |
| |Hash Type | Hash Value    | |
| +----------+---------------+ |
|                              |
+------------------------------+
```

`CID`s allow us to build data-structures that link to other data-structures
in completely different formats. Image a tree of JSON objects that link
to BSON objects than also link to git commits. All the way down this tree we
have cryptographic hashes that allow us to distribute the data.
