As we've seen, the centralized web relies on central authorities
to host our data and uses URLs as addresses to access it. But location
addressing isn't the only option. On the
<strong>decentralized web</strong>, we can all host each other's data,
and there's a different kind of linking that's more secure, making it easy to
trust our neighbors.

## Crytographic hashing

<strong>[Cryptographic hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function)</strong> is the
most important tool in the toolbox of decentralized data structures. It opens the door to a new form of linking, known as <strong>content
addressing</strong>, that we can use in a decentralized environment without central authorities.

Hashing takes data of any size and returns you a single fixed-size "hash" for that data.
A hash is a string of characters that looks like gobbledygook, but you can think of it
as a name for the data. It might look something like this:

`zdpuAsHkamdCQgrDrNSwJVgjMkQWoLxdrccxV6qe9htipNein`

To be honest, these content-derived names aren't currently very friendly to humans
(`beagle.jpg` was so much more descriptive!), but they're a lot more secure. Here's why:

<strong>Cryptographic hashes can be derived from the content of the data itself</strong>,
meaning that anyone using the same
algorithm on the same data will arrive at the same hash. If Kyle and Jess
are both using the same decentralized web protocol, such as IPFS, to share the exact
same photo of a kitten, both images will have exactly the same hash. By comparing
those hashes and confirming they're identical, we can guarantee that every single pixel
of those two photos is identical.

<strong>Cryptographic hashes are also unique</strong>. That means that if Jess uses Photoshop to remove a
single whisker from that kitty, the updated image will have a new hash, and it will
be easy to tell &mdash; just from the hash, without access to the file itself &mdash; that it
contains different data.

## Trust on the decentralized web

On the centralized web, we've learned to trust certain authorities and not others. We do our best
with the clues we have from URLs, but there are some malicious actors who use the shortcomings of location
addressing to trick us.

On the decentralized web, where we're all able to pitch in and host each other's data, we may not
know much about the <em>peers</em> who are hosting data, but content addressing gives us a way to trust
the data that they're sharing. With content addressing, we can't be fooled by malicious actors into
accessing the wrong data. That's what makes cryptographic hashing so important to the decentralized web.

## Asking peers for content

With traditional location addressing, we knew we needed to visit the domain `puppies.com` to find the
content stored as `beagle.jpg`. If the `puppies.com` domain were broken for some reason, we'd lose
access to that image.

The decentralized web works differently. When we want a specific photo of an adorable pet, we ask for it
by its content address (hash). Who do we ask? The whole network! If Kyle is online, we'll see that he has
the content we're looking for, which we can verify as being exactly what we're looking for because it has
a matching hash. If Kyle goes offline, we may still be able to get the same photo from Jess or another peer.

Since we use hashes to request data on the decentralized web, we can think of a hash not just as a name but also a link.
