---
    title: "Verifying your deal"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

Once compressed, the key data needed to verify storage is stored on the Filecoin chain, a copy of which is maintained by each user running a node. This allows for Proof of Spacetime to run regularly over time.

As a storage client, you can run the `lotus client list-deals` command to list all of the storage deals proposed from that node. For example, here are the results from a node from which only one deal has been proposed:

```
$ lotus client list-deals

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj66rcmkwkbxxx5prvd5sklci
DealId:		2
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 59)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744
```

Let's explore the data made available by this command:
- **DealCid**: Content identifier (CID) for the deal proposal.
- **DealId**: An ID for the deal which is unique to the client. In a list of deals, you may find deal IDs `0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, etc.  **TODO: Are these unique to client or miner?? Neither?**
- **Provider**: A unique identifier for the storage provider with whom the deal was made, also known as a storage miner.
- **State**: The state of the deal. This will most often be `StorageDealActive` once the data is stored and sealed. (Note that currently this will stay as `StorageDealActive` even after the duration of the deal expires or the miner fails a Proof of Storage, so it's important to refer to the `slashed` field for the latter case.)
- **On Chain?**: A boolean indicating whether the deal has been stored on the chain. If positive, this field will also indicate the epoch in which the data was stored. An epoch is a specific point on the chain. Lower numbers are further back in the history of the chain, while higher numbers are more recent.
- **Slashed?**: A boolean indicating whether the storage provider has failed a Proof of Spacetime. (If the miner stops storing your data, this value will change to `Y` and the miner will be penalized.)
- **PieceCID**: A CID (Content Identifier) representing the stored data.
- **Size**: The bytes of data being stored.
- **Price**: The price per epoch in Filecoin Token (FIL) for the storage deal.
- **Duration**: The total duration of the agreed deal in epochs (one iteration of the blockchain, roughly 45 seconds **TODO: confirm length of time per epoch**).

## Compare these deals

For the quiz below, consider the following three deals:

```
$ lotus client list-deals

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj55rcmkwkbxxx6prvd5sklci
DealId:		3
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 59)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj44rcmkwkbxxx5prvd5sklci
DealId:		4
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 22)
Slashed?:	Y
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj33rcmkwkbxxx4prvd5sklci
DealId:		5
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 38)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744
```
