---
    title: "Data has structure!"
    type: "text"
---

In our [Content Addressing on the Decentralized
Web](https://proto.school/content-addressing) tutorial, we discussed the
concept of a content identifier, or CID. (If you haven’t reviewed
that lesson yet, we’d highly recommend you do so, as this
tutorial builds on the concepts it introduces!) A CID functions
like a fingerprint for a blob of data, and consists primarily of
a cryptographic hash of the data itself. We can use this
identifier as a unique and succinct name to point to that data.
Because the name is unique, we can use it as a link, replacing
location-based identifiers, like URLs, with ones based on the
content of the data itself.

However, links aren’t just used for identifying specific content;
they’re fundamental tools for representing, organizing, and
traversing structured information. In all kinds of objects and
systems in our daily lives&mdash;telephone directories,
bibliographies, mind maps, taxonomies, and more&mdash; we find
data with *structure*, and links form a critical part of that
structure.

## Data Structures

Whether you're a programmer or not, you're surrounded by
structured data. Lists, dictionaries, and catalogs all help us
organize information and take into account the relationships
between various pieces of data.

At a certain level of detail, it starts to become necessary to
formally describe the properties of the data we work with, giving
rise to concrete specifications called, appropriately enough,
*data structures*! From Wikipedia:

> In computer science, a data structure is a data organization,
> management and storage format that enables efficient access and
> modification. More precisely, a data structure is a collection of
> data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or
> operations that can be applied to the data.

In programming, data structures are everywhere. The way you
organize data into variables in order to use them in programs
involves anywhere from dozens to millions of data structures. If
you're a developer, you're probably familiar with common data
structures like arrays, objects, graphs, etc. These structures
are often linked together: for example, in a common data structure known as a _linked list_, each
item indicates where to find the next item in a computer's
memory.

On the decentralized web we access data directly from our peers,
rather than from a central authority. Within an isolated
environment, such as your own laptop, you can have a great degree
of trust in the data structures you work with in memory or on
disk. However, in a decentralized system you have less, or
possibly zero, trust among peers. To fit this environment, we
need an efficient way to link data structures together, while
still preserving our ability to verify their integrity (a crucial
property of CIDs). To continue the previous example, if we're
traversing a linked list that we got from the distributed web, we don't
want a bad actor to be able to insert items in the middle
undetected.

In this tutorial, we'll explore this notion, learning how to
develop a specialized data structure, called a Merkle DAG, that
meets these needs. As we'll see, this structure provides the
foundation for a trustworthy, distributed web of interlinked
data.
