---
    title: "Advantages of properly structured data"
    type: "multiple-choice"
---

The choices we make when structuring our data have important
consequences. Consider the example of a photo library, each image
depicting different people, places, and events over the course of
several years. We could structure this data in many ways&mdash;we
could even elect to not structure it at all!&mdash;and each choice
would have significant implications for our interactions with the
library.

Structure can serve as an index for data, affecting the speed
with which we can locate and retrieve specific pictures in our
photo library. Structure can add semantics to data as well, by
enabling us to group related objects.

```
pics
├── cats
│   ├── 2018-02-23-tabby.png
│   └── 2019-12-16-black.png
└── fish
    ├── 2017-03-05-freshwater.png
    ├── 2018-04-14-tropical.png
    └── 2020-10-02-blowfish.png
```

The directory listing above gives us a small, concrete example to
work with. In this example, we have a root directory, called
"pics", that holds our entire photo collection. Within this
directory, we’ve grouped our photos into two sub-directories,
"cats" and "fish", to separate photos based on their subject.
Within these sub-directories, we’ve organized the photos by the
date they were taken, which is reflected in their filenames. The
structure here helps describe the individual files, letting us
know, for example, that  "2018-04-14-tropical" is in some way
related to the terms "fish" and "pics", and that "pics" is a more
general description of the collection that this individual file
is contained within. The structure also helps us identify
commonalities in our data: "2018-02-23-tabby.png" and
"2019-12-16-black.png" are related in their common
classification.

There is no single best way to structure one’s data; every choice
comes with significant tradeoffs. The larger our dataset becomes,
the more important it is to tailor its structure to the way we
intend to use and access it. In our example, photos are organized
according to animal type, which makes looking for pictures of
specific animals very easy. However, trying to find the picture
file with the earliest timestamp amongst all the files is
comparatively more difficult, requiring us to look through all of
the directories. If our directory consisted of thousands of
photos, it would become extremely tedious. If we instead
organized their hierarchy according to the date each picture was
taken, the situation would be reversed.

Structure gives our data meaning and organization, while CIDs let
us reference data securely, verifiably, and without coordination
in a distributed network. In the following lessons, we’ll see how
to build content-addressable data structures that give us the
power of both!
