---
    title: "Merkle DAGs: Verifiability"
    type: "multiple-choice"
---

Because we use cryptographic-strength hash algorithms to create
CIDs, they offer a high degree of *verifiability*: an individual
who retrieves data using a content address can always compute the
CID for themselves to ensure that they got what they were after.
This offers both permanence (the data behind a content address
will never change) and protection against malicious manipulation
(bad actors can’t trick you into downloading the wrong file
without you recognizing that it’s not the file you requested).

In a Merkle DAG, the CID of each node depends, in turn, on the
CIDs of each of its children. As such, the CID of a root node
uniquely identifies not just that node, but the *entire* DAG of
which it’s the root! As a result, we can extend all of the
awesome security, integrity, and permanence guarantees of CIDs to
our data structure itself, and not just the data that it
contains!

Have you ever made a temporary backup copy of a file directory
during some editing process, then found the two directories
months later and wondered whether their contents were still
identical? Rather than laboriously comparing files, you could
compute a Merkle DAG for each copy: if the CIDs of the root
directory matched, you’d know you could safely delete one and
free up some space on your hard drive!

## Any Node Can Be a Root Node

DAGs can be seen as recursive data structures, each DAG
consisting of *smaller* DAGs. In our example, the CID "baf...8"
identifies a DAG, but so does the CID "baf...6"- it just
identifies a smaller DAG, a subgraph of the one identified by
"baf...8". The corresponding nodes are *both* root nodes, given
the right context.

This is an extremely powerful and useful property. If we’re
retrieving content that’s structured as a DAG, we don’t have to
retrieve the entire DAG: we have the option of retrieving a
subgraph instead, identified by its own top node’s CID (the top
node of this subgraph would become its root node). If we want to
share that subgraph with somebody else, we don’t have to include
the context of the larger graph we originally retrieved the data
from&mdash;we just have to send the CID of the subgraph. And, if we
want to embed that subgraph as a part of a larger DAG that’s
different from the one we originally found it in, we’re free to,
because the DAG’s CID, which is the CID of its root node, depends
on the root node’s descendents and not its ancestors.

That last point deserves greater emphasis: with Merkle DAGs, we
can take the same DAG and seamlessly embed it in multiple other,
larger DAGs simultaneously! This enables a massive,
interconnected weave of DAGs, building on top of and borrowing
pieces from one another.

## Ensuring a Root Node Exists

Sometimes, our data doesn’t immediately present a single root
node: this is not actually a strict requirement of a DAG.
Consider, for example, the following employee hierarchy, which
has two managers without any superior and one employee with two
managers:

![A Merkle DAG with five nodes. The three leaf nodes describe the associate-level employees Jim, Padma, and Aiden, labeled "baf...1" through "baf...3". Two non-leaf nodes describe the managers: Asif ("baf...4"), who manages Jim and Padma; and Ciara ("baf...5"), who manages Padma and Aiden. The nodes for managers embed the CIDs of the employees they manage.](/tutorial-assets/T0008L05-employees.png)

There is no single node that serves as a root node for all five
of the nodes in the diagram, and so it would be impossible to
share or retrieve the entire DAG using any of baf...1-5. That
doesn’t stop us from making one, however! We can create a new DAG
by creating an additional node that has the "Asif" and "Ciara"
nodes as its own children, and use that as a root node.

Alternatively, we might want  to have two separate data
structures, where "Asif" or "Ciara" are the respective root nodes
(the node for Padma, who has two managers, would be included in
both of these DAGs.) The important distinction is that this would
make two separate Merkle DAGs, because you cannot navigate to all
nodes in this dataset from only one of the two roots (the links
in a DAG are directed and there is no link from "Padma" to
"Ciara" so you can’t get to either "Ciara" or "Aiden" from a root
node of "Asif").
