---
    title: "Merkle DAGs: Distributability"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

Merkle DAGs inherit the *distributability* of CIDs. Using
content-addressing for DAGs has several interesting consequences
for their distribution. The first, of course, is that anybody who
has a DAG is capable of acting as a provider for that DAG. The
second is that when we’re retrieving data encoded as DAG, like a
directory of files, we can leverage this fact to retrieve all of
a node’s children in parallel, potentially from a number of
different providers! The third is that file servers are not
limited to centralized data centers, giving our data greater
reach. Finally, because each node in a DAG has its own CID, the
DAG it represents can be shared and retrieved independently of
any DAG it is itself embedded in.

## Case Study: Distributing Large Datasets

As an example, consider the distribution of a large, popular,
scientific dataset. Today, on the location-addressed web:
- The researcher sharing the file is responsible for maintaining the
  file server and its associated costs
- The same server is likely used to respond to requests all over the world
- The data itself may be distributed monolithically, as a single file archive
- It’s hard to locate alternative providers of the same data
- Data is likely in large chunks that must be downloaded in serial from a
  single provider
- It’s hard for others to share datasets that build on the original data

Merkle DAGs help us alleviate all of these problems. By
distributing the dataset as a content-addressed DAG:
- Anybody who wants can help distribute the file
- Nodes from all over the world can participate in serving the data
- Each part of the DAG has its own CID that can be distributed independently
- It’s easy to find alternative providers of the same data
- The nodes forming the DAG are small, and can be downloaded in
  parallel from many different providers
- Larger datasets encompassing the original can simply link the
  original dataset as a child of a larger DAG

All of this works to promote scalable and redundant access to
this important data.
