---
    title: "Merkle DAGs: Deduplication"
    type: "multiple-choice"
---

Merkle DAGs offer a straightforward way of achieving *data
deduplication*, efficiently storing data by encoding redundant
sections as links. This can take place on both small and large
scales.

For an example of small-scale data duplication, consider the use
case of tracking changes files in a directory over time (this is
often called *versioning*). One change we could make to this
directory is to delete the "fish" directory, replacing it with a
directory called "dogs". These changes result in a new DAG,
representing an updated state of the directory. However, all of
the nodes representing the "cats" directory and its files are
common to both DAGs. Therefore, we can reuse them, as depicted
below, where the orange nodes represent nodes that are only used
in the original DAG, the green nodes represent those that are
common to both, and the blue nodes represent the extra nodes
needed for the new state.

![The complete Merkle DAG from Lesson 4, with three new nodes: "baf...9", a leaf node representing an image called "shiba.png"; an intermediate node, "baf...10", representing a directory called "dogs" that has "baf...9" as a child; and "baf...11", representing the "pics" directory after "dogs" has been added and "fish" has been deleted, with "baf...7" (the cats directory) and "baf...10" as children. Nodes present only in the original DAG ("baf...1,2,3,6,8") are colored orange. Nodes present in both DAGs ("baf...4,5,7") are colored green. The new nodes are colored blue.](/tutorial-assets/T0008L07-deduplication.svg)

This means that we can actually store both versions of the "pics"
directory, without taking up twice as much space as it takes to
store a single version! Git, a common version control system,
uses Merkle DAGs in a very similar way to track changes to source
code in software projects!

Deduplication makes an even bigger difference when you expand
this concept to a larger scale. For example, consider the use
case of browsing the web! When a person visits a web page using a
browser, the browser must first download any resources associated
with the page, including images, text, and styling markup. You
may have noticed that a lot of web pages actually look fairly
similar, using slightly different variants of a common theme.
Often, there's a lot of redundancy here&mdash;the themes are mostly
the same, with tweaks here and there in the data that describes
them.

On the location-addressed web, each of these themes, despite
sharing lots of the same data, is often completely re-downloaded,
as there's no easy way to identify this redundancy. In contrast,
if Merkle DAGs were used to distribute the themes, they'd all
share an identifiable common core that remained unchanged from one
theme to the next, and so the browser could be smart enough to
avoid downloading this component more than once. Whenever a user
visited a new website using a variation of the theme, the browser
would only need to download the nodes of its DAG corresponding to
the parts that are different, having already previously
downloaded the rest! For resources that are used extremely widely
on the Internet (think WordPress themes, the Bootstrap CSS
library, or common JavaScript libraries), this could result in
tremendous reduction in wasteful, needless downloads!

Content addressing enables us to form something of a global,
distributed file system. Using Merkle DAGs, you can "store" a
massive dataset without really having to store it: as long as you
have an Internet connection, you can retrieve the pieces you need
at any given point in time. In fact, *nobody* has to store the
entire dataset! CIDs allow us to seamlessly link and build data
collections across computers, helping everybody to use storage
space more efficiently (though, it should be noted, there are
also often times we *want* to duplicate data for redundancy).

We also aren’t limited in the granularity of our DAGs: rather
than working with large nodes that correspond to entire files, we
can split a file up into chunks and make a DAG out of them! When
we do so, we can often find ways to deduplicate the contents of
similar files!
