---
    title: "Incentivized, decentralized storage"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

## Centralized and decentralized storage

In our [Decentralized Data Structures](https://proto.school/#/data-structures) tutorial, you learned how content addressing enable us to trust peers on the decentralized web. On a decentralized, peer-to-peer network like IPFS, we can use crytograhic hashing to confirm that any number of peers are storing exact copies of our data. However, we're depending on the generosity of those parties and have no guarantee that our data will continue to be replicated over time. Filecoin, on the other hand, adds an incentive layer to promote long term, verifiable storage on the decentralized web.

## Incentivized storage

When we pay a storage provider in a centralized system, we place explicit trust in a specific entity (AWS, etc.) to keep our data safe and store it for a promised period. With the decentralized Filecoin network, on the other hand, we have access to a variety of storage providers (referred to as storage miners) who are competing for our business. We pay for these storage deals with Filecoin tokens, a cryptocurrency.

Although we may not be familiar with these providers in the way we're acquainted with the well-known centralized storage providers, we can place our trust in the design of Filecoin's protocol and implementations, which in turn provide us with the ability to verify that storage miners are honoring their agreements to store our data for a set period of time. Thanks to Filecoin's blockchain, all participants in the network work together to verify each deal.

## Cryptographic primitives, not encryption

In this tutorial we'll explore the cryptographic proofs that Filecoin uses to verify storage, called Proof of Replication (PoRep) and Proof of Storage (PoSt). These systems are used for compression and for guaranteeing certain properties of the system for consensus and guarantees.

It's important to note that cryptographic primitives are different from encryption. Filecoin does not provide encryption, although you may use it to store encrypted data.
