---
    title: "Proof-of-Replication (PoRep)"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

When a client negotiates a storage deal with a miner, they're hiring them to store a _piece_ of data, which might be a whole or partial file. Miners store these pieces from one or more clients in _sectors_, the fundamental storage unit used by Filecoin.

In a Proof of Replication, a storage miner proves that they are storing a _physically_ unique copy, or _replica_, of the data in their sector.

## The pre-commit phase: Replication & CommD

The replication of data happens in a _pre-commit_ phase, in which the storage miner places the replicated piece data into a sector.

Before a system file (e.g. `puppy.gif`) can be stored on the Filecoin network, it must first be transformed into a Filecoin Piece.

In the first stage of this transformation, the system file is chunked up with UnixFS to create an IPLD DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph). You can learn more about DAGs (a form of merkle tree) in our [Decentralized Data Structures](https://proto.school/#/data-structures) tutorial. This IPLD DAG has a _payload CID_, identical to an IPFS CID, which represents the root of the DAG.

The IPLD DAG is then serialized to a CAR file (TODO: Add link) and bitpadded to make a Filecoin Piece. This piece has a unique _piece CID_, also known as a CommP (Piece Commitment).

Since payload CIDs and piece CIDs are cryptographic hashes of the data itself, they're unique, with identical CIDs guaranteeing identical content. Identical IPLD DAGs will produce identical payload CIDs and identical pieces will produce identical piece CIDs, no matter who is going to store or retrieve them.

Once a sector is full, a CommD (Commitment of Data, aka UnsealedSectorCID) is produced, representing the root node of all the piece CIDs contained in the sector. Most often, this will be an aggregate of pieces from a number of different clients.

## The commit phase: Sealing & CommR

In the _commit_ phase, a process called _sealing_ takes place. Sealing is a sequential operation which gradually generates an encoding of the data for each miner, also known as a unique replica. (Note that encoding is not the same as encryption. If you want to store private data, you must encrypt it before adding it to the Filecoin network.)

During the sealing process, a piece CID is wrapped with other deal parameters to create a Deal Proposal. The _deal CID_ contains information about the data itself, in the form of the piece CID, the identities of the miner and client, and other important transaction details.

The sealing process produces a CommR (Commitment of Replication, aka SealedSectorCID), which is the root hash of the replica created by encoding ("sealing") the file identified by the CommD. This CommR offers the proof we need that the miner is storing a physically unique copy of the client's data. This Proof of Replication happens just once, at the time the data is first stored by the miner and sealed into a sector.

The sealing process also compresses the Proof of Replication using zk-SNARKs to keep the chain smaller so that it can be stored by all members of the Filecoin network for verification purposes. We'll learn more about zk-SNARKs in a future lesson.
