---
    title: "Verifying your deal"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

Once compressed, the key data needed to verify storage is stored on the Filecoin chain, a copy of which is maintained by each user running a node. This allows for Proof of Spacetime to run regularly over time.

As a storage client, you can run the `lotus client list-deals` command to list all of the storage deals proposed from that node. For example, here are the results from a node from which only one deal has been proposed:

```
$ lotus client list-deals

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj66rcmkwkbxxx5prvd5sklci
DealId:		2
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 59)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744
```

Let's explore the data made available by this command:
- **DealCid**: TBD
- **DealId**: An ID for the deal which is unique to the client. In a list of deals, you may find deal IDs `0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, etc.
- **Provider**: An identifier for the storage provider with whom the deal was made, also known as a storage miner.
- **State**: The state of the deal. This will most often be `StorageDealActive` once the storage has started. (Note that currently this will stay as `StorageDealActive` even after the duration of the deal expires or the miner fails a Proof of Storage, so it's important to refer to the `slashed` field for the latter case.)
- **On Chain?**: A boolean indicating whether the deal has been stored on the chain. If positive, this field will also indicate the epoch in which the data was stored. An epoch is a section of the chain. Earlier numbers are further back in the history of the chain, while larger numbers are more recent.
- **Slashed?**: A boolean indicating whether the storage provider has failed a Proof of Spacetime. (If the miner stops storing your data, this value will change to `Y` and the miner will be penalized.)
- **PieceCID**: A CID (Content Identifier) representing the stored data, specific to the miner with which it's stored. Unlike a payload CID, which only represents the data itself, this CID will be different if you store the same data with two different storage providers. The PieceCID is generated at the time the sector is sealed.
- **Size**: The bytes of data being stored
- **Price**: The price in Filecoin Token (FIL) for the storage deal *TODO: For the whole deal over time or for storage space per time unit??)
- **Duration**: The duration of the deal in (TODO: add unit, explain how this relates to epoch being the start of the duration.  This is the duration promised, not the duration until now, right? )

## Compare these deals

For the quiz below, consider the following three deals:

```
$ lotus client list-deals

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj55rcmkwkbxxx6prvd5sklci
DealId:		3
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 59)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj44rcmkwkbxxx5prvd5sklci
DealId:		4
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 22)
Slashed?:	Y
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744

DealCid:	bafyreiefvrrv5j7omqzfersogg4nqzctyzj33rcmkwkbxxx4prvd5sklci
DealId:		5
Provider: 	t01000
State:		StorageDealActive
On Chain?:	Y (epoch 38)
Slashed?:	N
PieceCID:	bafk4chzazx6u4luj34azuit37rlylgrcbgkaakqsjt5avsbolxale2igii3q
Size:		1016
Price:		1000000
Duration:	2744
```
