Now that we have files accessible in the browser, let's see how to add them to IPFS.

Because files in IPFS are content-addressed and immutable, they can be complicated to edit. **Mutable File System (MFS)** is a tool built into IPFS that lets you treat files like you normally would in a name-based filesystem — you can add, remove, move, and edit MFS files and have all the work of updating links and hashes taken care of for you.

MFS is accessed through the `files` commands in the IPFS CLI (command-line interface) and API. In this tutorial we'll explore the [Files API](https://github.com/ipfs/interface-js-ipfs-core/blob/master/SPEC/FILES.md#the-files-api-aka-mfs-the-mutable-file-system).

To add a file to IPFS, we can use the MFS `files.write()` method like so:

```js
await ipfs.files.write(path, content, [options], [callback])
```

The MFS `files.write()` method can accept file `content` in the form of a Buffer, ReadableStream, PullStream, Blob (only in the browser), or string path to a file (only in Node.js). Since file objects in the browser are a kind of Blob, we're good to go!

Even though the file object in the browser happens to know its own filename, Blobs in general don't, so IPFS can't determine the existing filename directly. We'll have to provide the desired filename as part of the `path`.

The `path` is a new path you'd like to create within your IPFS instance, including the desired filename. (Note that it's the destination path we're describing, _not_ the path where the file already resides on your computer.)

The MFS `files.write()` method, like similar methods you may have used on your own computer, is actually built for editing the content of an existing file. However, we can also use it to create a brand new file by providing the boolean option `{ create: true }` to indicate that a file should be created at the given path if it doesn't already exist there.

So if we had a file object in our browser, accessible via a variable `catPic`, and we wanted to add it to our root directory on IPFS and have it be named `cat.jpg`, we could do it like so:

```js
await ipfs.files.write('/cat.jpg', catPic, { create: true })
```

If we needed to, we could have used concatenation to create that same path. This comes in handy if your filename is a property of your file object, as is true in the browser.

```js
await ipfs.files.write('/' + catPic.name, catPic, { create: true })
```

Note that the `write` method does not provide a return value.

Later on we'll look at how to add files to directories other than the root directory.
