As we've seen, the centralized web relies on trustworthy authorities
to host our data and uses location-based URLs to access it. But there's another option. On the
<strong>decentralized web</strong>, we can **all** host each other's data,
with a different kind of linking that's more secure, making it easy to
trust our neighbors.

## Crytographic hashing

<strong>[Cryptographic hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function)</strong> is the most important tool in the toolbox of decentralized data structures. It opens the door to a new form of linking — known as <strong>content
addressing</strong>  — that liberates us from reliance on central authorities.

Hashing takes data of any size and type, and returns to you a single, fixed-size "hash" in its place.
A hash is a string of characters that looks like gobbledygook, but you can think of it
as a name for the data. It might look something like this:

`zdpuAsHkamdCQgrDrNSwJVgjMkQWoLxdrccxV6qe9htipNein`

To be honest, these names aren't currently very friendly to humans
(`beagle.jpg` was so much more descriptive!), but they're a lot more secure. Here's why:

<strong>Cryptographic hashes can be derived from the content of the data itself</strong>,
meaning that anyone using the same algorithm on the same data will arrive at the same hash. If Ada and Grace
are both using the same decentralized web protocol — such as IPFS — to share the exact
same photo of a kitten, both images will have exactly the same hash. By comparing
those hashes and confirming that they're the same, we can guarantee that every single pixel
of those two photos is identical.

<strong>Cryptographic hashes are unique</strong>. If Grace uses Photoshop to remove a
single whisker from that kitty, the updated image will have a new hash. Simply by looking at that hash, it will
be easy to tell that it contains different data (even without accessing the file).

## Trust on the decentralized web

On the centralized web, we've learned to trust certain authorities and not others. We do our best
with the clues we have from URLs, but there are some malicious actors who use the shortcomings of location addressing to trick us.

We all pitch in and host each other's data on the decentralized web, though, and content addressing gives us a better way to trust the information that's shared. We may not know much about the <em>peers</em> who are hosting data, but it's much harder to be tricked into accessing the wrong data by malicious actors. That's what makes cryptographic hashing so important to the decentralized web.

## Asking peers for content

With traditional location addressing, we knew that we needed to visit the domain `puppies.com` to find the
content stored as `beagle.jpg`. If the `puppies.com` domain were broken for some reason, we'd lose
access to that image.

The decentralized web works differently. When we want a specific photo of an adorable pet, we ask for it
by its content address (hash). Who do we ask? The whole network! If Ada is online, we'll see that she has
the content we're looking for, and confirm that it's exactly what we're looking for because it has
a matching hash. If she goes offline, we may still be able to get the same photo from Grace or another peer.

**The hash is the link.** Since we use hashes to request data on the decentralized web, we can think of a hash as a link, not just a name.
