Now that we have files accessible in the browser, let's see how to add them to IPFS.

<strong> This lesson is trying to be about adding using MFS - ipfs.files.write().</strong>

In our previous tutorials, we worked with the IPFS DAG API, which can be used with a variety of types of data. For the specific use case of file storage and sharing, we can save a lot of time by using the IPFS File API instead. It's custom-built to deal with all the complexities introduced by file systems.

When we used the DAG API, remember that we added data with `ipfs.dag.add()`. Using the file API, we can use a similar command to add data with a more complex structure.

To add a file to IPFS directly, we can use the File API's `write()` method like so:

```
await ipfs.files.write(path, content, [options], [callback])
```

The `path` is a new path you'd like to create within your IFPS instance (not the path where the file already resides on a computer).

The `content` passed can represent a file in the form of:

* a Buffer
* a ReadableStream
* a PullStream
* a Blob (only works in the browser)
* a string path to a file (only works in Node.js)

Luckily for us, each file object in the `files` array in our browser is already in a format that works <strong>(Teri has no idea why or which of the formats above this is)</strong>, so we can pass each file object in as `content` just as it exists right now!

There's one very important option you'll often need to use here. The `.write()` command is built for editing existing files, and it looks for a file at the `path` you pass in. To create a new file at that path, you need to use the boolean option `{create: true}` to indicate that a file should be created at the given path if it doesn't already exist.

So to add a new file (if we have access to it in one of the acceptable formats in a variable `file`) to a path `/pics`, we could do the following:

`await ipfs.files.write('/pics', file, {create: true})`

When we add a file to IPFS using `.write()`, the value returned for each added file should take this format:
```
<strong> there's nothing in the docs about what you get back?????</strong>
```
