---
    title: "What is a Peer?"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

In the [Introduction to libp2p Tutorial][intro-libp2p-tutorial], we learned that libp2p helps us build _peer-to-peer_ applications that don't depend on centralized servers.

In this tutorial, we'll cover some of the core functionality of peer-to-peer applications by exploring the `Libp2p` node object,
the main "command center" for [js-libp2p][js-libp2p]. Since js-libp2p runs in web browsers, we can even explore a node interactively!

Before we get into the details, let's talk about some of the terms we'll be using. The words "peer," "node," and "host" are used throughout libp2p's documentation (and peer-to-peer networking in general) to refer to very similar concepts. 

Generally speaking, a "peer" is a single participant in a peer-to-peer system. 
Each peer is represented by a piece of software running on a user's device, and peers can talk directly to one another without having to go through a central server first.

While "peer" and "node" are almost synonymous, in this tutorial, we'll generally use _"peer"_ to refer to the abstract idea of a single member of the network. 
For example, we might say "a peer sends its ID in a message to another peer."

When talking about the actual software that defines a peer's behavior, we'll use the word _"node"_, for example, "we can use our node's `start` method to connect to the network."

Finally, we won't use the word _"host"_ much in this tutorial, but you may see it in the documentation for [go-libp2p][go-libp2p], where the main "command center" interface is called the `Host`.

## The libp2p Node

Now that we know what we mean by "peer" and "node," let's look at what they can do.

The [js-libp2p API reference][js-libp2p-api-docs] lists a whole lot of methods, but we're only going to focus on a few key features for this tutorial:

- Every node has a unique "Peer ID" that distinguishes them from other peers in the network.
- Each node can open a secure communication channel to another node, if they know the other node's Peer ID and at least one valid network address.
- Nodes communicate with each other using application-defined _protocols_ that specify how they should talk to each other.

Those may seem like simple features, but they are the building blocks for all of libp2p's more complex functionality.

We'll get into more detail about each of these in the next few lessons!


[intro-libp2p-tutorial]: ../introduction-to-libp2p
[js-libp2p-api-docs]: https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/blob/master/doc/API.md
[js-libp2p]: https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p
[go-libp2p]: https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p